Twente9con 2004

Tuesday 21 + Wednesday 22 December 2004 at University of Twente,
Enschede, The Netherlands.

You are cordially invited (but please register, see section
``ATTENDEES'' below).

Enschede can be found at MGRS 32U LC 56316 87372 (WGS84 datum).

We will meet in building Zilverling, building number 11 on [the
campus map | http://www.utwente.nl/en/services/route/]

 *	tuesday 21 we will be in room 5126
 *	wednesday 22 we will be in room U1

I propose we start the meeting at 10:00 in the morning.

PROGRAM

The meeting will probably in a BOF style, meaning: the agenda will
very much depend on the interests of and contributions by the people
present. Please add your ideas, proposals etc below (or send them to
me, axel). (Note: editing via a web browser is no longer supported,
editing of pages on this wiki is only possible via acme).

In the same week as the twente9con, sape will give three lectures in
[a course on on the design of concurrent/parallel systems |
http://www.cs.utwente.nl/~jansen/courses/gs/] (to access you may need
the username and password that have been mentioned on [#plan9 |
http://mordor.tip9ug.jp/irclog/2004/1213/plan9_1102910481.txt]), in
which he will talk about Plan 9 as an example of such a system. We
are welcome at those lectures (provided we leave enough space in the
lecture room for the students). Schedule:
 *	Dec 20 2004 10:40-12:25 GOS 3/4 in LA 1349 (building 17)
 *	Dec 22 2004 13:45-15:30 GOS 5/6 in HT 1300 (WB, building 20)
 *	Dec 24 2004 13:45-15:30 GOS 5/6 in HT 1300 (WB, building 20)

To come up with something like an agenda, it might be nice to know
what people want to do or discuss, what people can contribute to the
program (tell about or show), and what people would like to consume
(learn, hear about or see); wether we will be able to match those
will depend very much on the people that will be present. If you add
an item to those three lists, please indicate your name.

What people want to do or discuss:

 *	Plan 9 future, vision (matthias)

What people offer to do or discuss, and can contribute to:

 *	I could show you my plan 9 machine(s) :-) (and the coffee room
	music setup; I _still_ should try to redirfs the sound) (axel)
 *	if there is interest, we might discuss a bit about libcontrol (I
	made some changes for the music stuff, and have some thoughts of
	refining that, where feedback might be useful) (axel)
 *	my LabelledTransitionSystemFS ideas I mentioned on 9fans some time
	ago (axel)
 *	discuss testing with boyd? :-) (axel)
 *	try to mount a TV card device from Japan (axel, matthias)
 *	USB mass storage, smart cards (richard)

What people would like to learn, hear and discuss about or see:

 *	inferno grid (axel) (i'll try to bring a copy --forsyth)
 *	venti/backup/vac/vacfs/snapshot/archive/network usage (matthias)
 *	programming hints/ideas (matthias)
 *	seeing you guys working with acme and sam (matthias)
 *	the music setup (matthias)
 *	(learn what is needed to) add support for 802.1x (axel)
 *	ipv6 on plan9 (mechiel)
 *	setting up a `public' plan9 system (mechiel)

ATTENDEES

So far, three lists of attendees here:

 *	Those who have decided to come
 *	Those who have expressed interest, but no definite decision
 *	Those who have expressed interest, but unfortunately cannot be
	there

Feel free to add yourself to the lists, and, for those in the
``maybe'' list, feel free to move yourself up to the ``will be'' or
down to the ``will not be'' lists, and/or mail me (axel) when you
know what you will be doing. I succeeded to arrange free lunches (if
there exists such a thing), so once you are sure that you will or
will not come please let me know. If you come let me (axel) know
 *	evt dietary preferences (e.g. vegetarian)
 *	if you intend to bring wifi equipment, the mac address(es) - see
	below.
 *	(optionally) your mobile phone number, to support regrouping in
	case we all get lost (also consider adding it to your name in the
	list below)

Who will be there?

 *	boyd roberts (mobile: +33 6 09 11 60 02)
 *	matthias teege (mobile: +49 176 24 05 89 20, arriving evening19th)
 *	charles forsyth (arriving afternoon 20th)
 *	richard miller
 *	devon o'dell
 *	vincent van gelderen (only tuesdag 21)
 *	mechiel lukkien (mobile: +31 6 149 75 760, home enschede: +31 53
	430 8238, email: mechiel@xs4all.nl)
 *	omer sinan kaya
 *	sape mullender
 *	axel belinfante (office phone: +31 53 489 3774, mobile: +31 6 47
	38 46 34)

Who may be there?

 *	dave lukes
 *	heiko dudzus
 *	sascha wildner

Who will not be there? (potential attendees who unfortunately will
not be able to attend).

 *	jean mehat
 *	lodewijk smit

PRACTICAL

Cost:

For the meeting itself I anticipate no costs, but all I offer for
that is the place to meet, some coffee, tea during the meeting, and
lunches (dutch ``second breakfast'' style - bread etc) (I succeeded
to arrange some funding for lunches and refreshments). I expect each
to book his own accomodation and (apart from lunches) pay his own
food in the university cafetaria etc. Also, both mechiel and I have
some space for ``mattrass on the floor'' guests; if you are
interested contact us (or me, axel) in time.

Getting to the venue, and maps:

 *	dutch train information [http://www.ns.nl]; button ``English'' at
	the top of the page.
 *	''door to door'' travel information [http://www.ovr.nl] (includes
	bus information, but only in dutch)

There is a railway station ``Enschede Drienerlo'' near the campus
(ca. 20 min walk, or fewer by bus [line 1 |
http://tinyurl.com/4cepn]). Only ``slow'' trains stop there, so if
you travel by ``intercity'' or ``fast train'' from elsewhere in the
netherlands you have to change, e.g. in Hengelo. If you have to
change in Hengelo anyway, it is probably faster to take a bus (see
below).

There are buses from Hengelo central station to the campus

 *	[line 15 | http://tinyurl.com/5mp3n] to Universiteit Twente (not
	in the weekend) The bus stop is closest to our building is indicated
	on the campus map by the ``H'' at the ``hallenweg'' near building
	number 5.
 *	[line 3 | http://tinyurl.com/6pazj] to ''Glanerbrug''. (note: the
	url gives the timetable for sunday (zondag), click the buttons for
	weekdays (Maandag tot en met Vrijdag), or saterday (zaterdag) There
	is a bus stop near the campus, on the viaduct where the
	``Hengelosestraat'' (the road between Enschede and Hengelo) crosses
	(goes over) the road that leads to the entrance of the university.

There are buses from Enschede central station to the campus

 *	[line 1 | http://tinyurl.com/6g6lt] to ''Universiteit,
	Langenkampweg''. Has its final destination on the campus, makes a
	nice detour through living quarters of enschede. The bus stop
	closest to our building is indicated on the campus map by the ``H''
	at the ``hallenweg'' near building number 5. Warning: line 15 that
	stops here as well will bring you to Hengelo.
 *	lines [3 | http://tinyurl.com/4loaj] (all day), 17 early
	mornings), 18 (around lunchtime), go straight from Enschede to
	nearby city Hengelo. There is a bus stop near the campus, on the
	viaduct where the ``Hengelosestraat'' (the road between Enschede and
	Hengelo) crosses (goes over) the road that leads to the entrance of
	the university.

[Maporama | http://www.maporama.com] can show a map of the city,
using e.g. postal codes. In the netherlands postal codes consist of 4
digits followed by 2 letters. For the campus, you can use: postcode:
7522 NB , city: Enschede , which will show you the campus, but not
exactly the building we meet in, for that see the info at the top of
this page. For postal codes of hotels, follow the links in the
accomodation section below (they will be in the contact info of the
hotel).

Wifi access:

Our university seems to have "Europe's largest Wi-Fi hotspot"
(according to some web page here). To arrange (guest) access it will
be useful to have your mac-addresses in advance.

[practical information about the campus |
http://www.utwente.nl/en/practical_information/] includes:
 *	[information about traveling in the netherlands |
	http://www.utwente.nl/en/practical_information/getting_there/transport/]
 *	[how to get to the university |
	http://www.utwente.nl/en/practical_information/getting_there/]
 *	[university campus map | http://www.utwente.nl/en/services/route/]
 *	[information about accomodation |
	http://www.utwente.nl/en/practical_information/accommodation/hotels.doc/]

The [web pages of the QEST conference |
http://www.qest.org/qest2004/] that was held here last summer contain
more information that may be interesting and/or still valid (like
information about the ``venue'' and about ``transportation'').

A bit more about accomodation:

In addition to the [university information about accomodation |
http://www.utwente.nl/en/practical_information/accommodation/hotels.doc/] there is [accomodation info from the QEST conference | http://www.qest.org/qest2004/accomodation] that still kind of applies. In addition to that information I have tried to find information about the less-expensive hotels here.

On-campus there is ``logica''. Most rooms have no own toilet or
shower (shared on coridor). Room price approx. EUR 42 (incl
breakfast). Contact info under QEST link; when booking there, mention
``twente9con''. The also on-campus ``drierburgt'' is more expensive,
see their website (eg via QEST accomodation page).

Off-campus there is, among others, the parkhotel (contact info under
QEST link). The parkhotel has rooms with (prices include breakfast)
 *	neither shower nor toilet in the room, but shared on the coridor
	(single EUR 35, double EUR 55)
 *	shower in the room, but toilet shared on the coridor (single EUR
	40, double EUR 65)
 *	both shower and toilet in the room (single EUR 50, double EUR 75)

There is a bus stop for lines 3, 17, 18 (see above) near the
parkhotel.

This page is in progress, let me know your feedback at
Axel.Belinfante@cs.utwente.nl

