Adding your face

face(6) files are low resolution images that symbolize a person or
group of people, for example a user, a company, a network provider,
or a country.

These files are read by the faces(1) command which uses them to
display in its window, a small image for each user's mail box message.

face files are usually created by rescaling either a gif or jpg image.

! jpg -c myface.jpg  | iconv -c m8 | resample -x 48 -y 48 > myface.1

If the image contains more than just your face or if the exposure is
non-optimal, Russ Cox has written a tool which allows you to trim and
adjust your image, though this only writes black and white images.

Mug insists for its input to be at least 100x100 pixels and the line
below adds a white border around the image which is useful - giving
you room to maneuver when editing.

! jpg -c myface.jpg |  resample -x 100  |  crop -b 255 255 255 -i -30 |  mug > face.1

The manual page is mug(1).

Once you have created your face, install it in
/lib/face/48x48x8/f/face.1 (your directory path may vary) and edit
/lib/face/.machines and /lib/face/48x48x8/.dict as appropriate (see
faces(1)).

[9srv.net] maintains a public faces database. If you do not have a
9srv account, you can execute
! cd /lib/face && con -l tcp!9srv.net!50001 | gunzip | tar -x
which will create a README file, a "people" directory, and a
"domains" directory. This will not overwrite anything in the standard
distribution or changes you've made to .machinelist or any of the
48x48xn directories. The README file contains more examples for
generating faces. If your email address consists of only the
characters [a-zA-Z0-9.@], you can add your face to the list by
sending a correctly-generated face(6) file as an email attachment to
add at face dot 9srv dot net. Submissions for folks with other email
addresses, as well as for additional domains, will be handled
manually; email a at 9srv dot net.

SEE ALSO

[Face the Nation by Rob Pike and David L. Presotto |
http://doc.cat-v.org/bell_labs/face_the_nation/].

There is a database of faces (picons in their terminology) at
Indinana University. This includes the Usenix Face saver project
archives, many company logos, and other misc images.
[http://ftp.cs.indiana.edu/pub/faces/picons/ |
http://ftp.cs.indiana.edu/pub/faces/picons/]

