Connecting from other OSes

Connecting to Plan 9 consists of either cpu(1)'ing to it, which is
like ssh(1) of other OSes, but more advanced. The second way is to
import files from Plan 9 using 9P.

DRAWTERM

[drawterm(8) | ../drawterm] is a program that non-Plan 9 systems
users can use to establish graphical cpu(1) connections with Plan 9
CPU servers. Just as a real Plan 9 terminal does, drawterm serves its
local name space as well as some devices (the keyboard, mouse, and
screen) to a remote CPU server, which mounts this name space on
/mnt/term and starts a shell. Typically, either explicitly or via the
profile, one uses the shell to start rio(1).

Xfree86 drivers for some video cards assume that masks (stipples)
have height equal to a multiple of 8. This causes drawterm to display
blanks instead of glyphs with some fonts. Try the -b argument to
drawterm if you see this problem.

The sourcecode and precompiled binaries for various OS's can be
downloaded from [http://swtch.com/drawterm/]

V9FS

See [v9fs] for further details.

9PFUSE

9pfuse provides a userspace fuse driver for mounting 9p filesystems.
It is available in many unix-related operating systems. A typical
command to mount a fs via 9pfuse:

! 9pfuse 192.168.1.199:20000 /home/linda/9pimport

For authentication and support for protocols like import [plan9port |
http://swtch.com/plan9port] provides versions of factotum(4) and
other utilities.

HUBFS

[hubfs] is a 9p fs which can be used in combination with 9pfuse or
other ways of accessing 9p. It provides functionality like
screen/tmux to allow persistent shells from both Plan 9 and another
operating system to be shared back and forth.

9VX

See [9vx] for details. In 9vx you can use the standard utilities like
cpu(1) or import(4)

