Cross domain authentication

Cross domain authentication has been implemented in two different
forms recently (Jul 2005), however there is still discussion about
the "best" solution.

IMPLEMENTATION 2

Central authentication server
[http://groups-beta.google.com/group/comp.os.plan9/msg/4625ee53672ef106?dmode=source&hl=en]

IMPLEMENTATION 1

Distributed authentication
[http://groups-beta.google.com/group/comp.os.plan9/msg/3c379056e750c514?dmode=source&hl=en]

A EARLIER, SIMILAR PROPOSAL

(Taken from a post by David Presotto to the 9grid list:
[http://nwn.definitive.org/pipermail/9grid/2004-September/000269.html])

In the current scheme, when a user authenticates, he/she gets a list
of domains that the server will accept and picks one to use (i.e. one
he has a key for). That should provide the second part of the name,
i.e., if I'm presotto authenticating via the domain bignose.com then
I should be presotto@bignose.com. Tacking on the @bignose.com is
currently missing.

That of course leaves the server to map the domain bignose.com to an
auth server that it trusts (i.e. has a key for and trusts others to
authenticate via). Currently that's done via the lib/ndb entry

! 	authdom=bignose.com auth=1.2.3.4

So we have a way to trust other authentication domains but not yet a
way to tag the resulting name. However, that's like 1 line of code in
factotum.

However, this requires that there be a shared key twixt each server
and each domain that it trusts. I'll leave it up to you if that's too
much.

If the server is a cpu server, then the caller can export its
factotum to its process on that cpu server so that it can
authenticate further. Is this a good idea? Would we be letting too
much access to the factotum? Might we want the user to start a second
less capable factotum for 9net access?

The client coming into the cpu server will need at least readonly
access to binaries and to enough directory structure to set up a name
space on that machine. I already had to make that work for the deep
lens survey stuff. I made ken's group 'noworld' access work for that.
If we put each 9net user in the 'noworld' group, then we can point
him to a file server and he can only get at files that are accessible
by his uid or by the 'noworld' group. You could even give him some
write access if you wanted to. It keeps such users from accessing
anything that was accidentally made world readable or writable. It
does mean that you have to change the file server so that anyone
coming in as a@b is just treated as a 'noworld' group user.

My 2 cents.

