Replace language for wikifs

The wikifs(4) in both Plan 9 and Inferno understand a very small set
of cues when generating HTML. That set can be limiting. It should be
replaced with something better, like Markdown.

Markdown engines in C already exist, and have been ported to Plan 9
via APE. For proper integration this should likely be turned into a
native parser, but that should be a relatively easy task.

Doing this for the Inferno wikifs would be a bit more work, as no
Markdown implementation exists in Limbo today (although there are
similar things).

These two together should make a good summer-sized project. Any extra
time could be spent converting the existing pages (or, even better,
writing a conversion program).

It is not particularly important that the language understood by
wikifs be markdown, per se, but it would be very nice if it was one
of the widely understood similar alternatives (rather than a new
creation). It is more important that the language understood by the
Plan 9 and Inferno wikifs implementaitons be the same (or, at the
very minimum, one a proper subset of the other).

LINKS

The original writeup on [Markdown |
http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/], including the initial
perl implementation.

[Discount | http://www.pell.portland.or.us/~orc/Code/markdown/], a
Markdown implementation with Plan 9 support (via APE) in the mainline
tree.

[textmangle | https://bitbucket.org/mjl/textmangle], a Limbo
implementation of a markdown-like library (with moderately different
syntax).

[Pandoc |
http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html#pandocs-markdown] and
[MultiMarkdown | http://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown/] are two
possible extensions worth considering. There are lots of others.

[Textile | http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Textile_(markup_language)]
and [reStructuredText |
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ReStructuredText] are alternatives to
Markdown which might be suitable, although neither is in as
widespread use.

