9grid

The name 9grid has been used for two separate but related projects.

An early grid of Plan 9 servers at Bell Labs and the University of
Calgary was called [9grid |
http://plan9.bell-labs.com/9grid/index.html]. It is generally closed
and not very much used.

More recently, private individuals and organizations have created a
handful of public-access servers and also use the name 9grid. These
servers include:

 *	[9grid.es | http://www.9grid.es]

Each of these servers runs its own authentication domain. For
accounts, see the details on the above web sites.

OPEN PROBLEMS

Open research problems remain in turning the loosely-associated
collection of machines above into a true grid of machines, with
cross-domain authentication, access controls, resource discovery, and
perhaps even load balancing.

The rest of this page sketches proposed solutions to some of these
problems.

AUTHENTICATION

We need to establish a consensus on how a griduser should be
authenticated on a gridnode.

 *	Proposal 1: [multiauthdom | http://www.r-36.net/multidomauth.tgz]
	by 20h
 *	Proposal 2: [factotum patch |
	http://www.tip9ug.jp/who/nashi/9grid/p9sk1.c] by tip9ug.
 *	Proposal 3: implementing SPKI

Proposal 1 and 2 seemingly agreed on assigning gridusers' name in the
form of "username@authdom". Plan 9 kernel surprisingly accepts this
notation. The same notation could be used on Proposal 3 too once
implemented.

LOCAL FILESTORE

On gridnodes, accesses by a griduser are treated as none access to
the local filesystem unless the user is registered to the filesystem.
We need to offer a secure way to grant gridusers the right to store
files on the gridnode. ramfs(1) can be used in many cases, but you
might want to remember that Plan 9 has the 1.8GB limitation of
installable memory, and also, it could be hard to do quota in ramfs.

The following proposals are to provide gridusers a way to store their
files on a fossil on gridnodes. Quota on these proposals can be done
by running some instance of fossil on a partition other than
/dev/sdC0/fossil or on an ordinary file on the fossil from which the
gridnode booted from.

 *	Proposal 1: create a "rwxrwxrwx sys sys" directory named by a
	random string and pass the secret pathname to a griduser.
 *	Proposal 2: make a [helper program |
	http://www.tip9ug.jp/who/nashi/9grid/mkgdir.c] which will add the
	griduser on a fossil and create a "rwx------ griduser sys" directory
	in the fossil.

LIMITING NETWORK ACCESS

Some admins would want to restrict the gridusers to access network
from the gridnode considering DDoS. We need to provide a way to give
gridnodes' admins the choice if they want to give or not to give the
access to the local network interface.

 *	Proposal 1: patch the kernel so that only the hostowner and none
	can access '#I' (ip(3) device) and '#l' (ether(3) device).
 *	Proposal 2: for gridusers, omit the binding of '#I' and '#l' to
	/net and set RFNOMNT. This can be done by setting up gridusers'
	environments properly.

SETTING UP THE GRIDUSERS' ENVIRONMENTS

We need a way to construct gridusers' environments on a gridnode.
Environments means... the namespace in Plan 9.

 *	Proposal: patch [cpu.c | http://www.r-36.net/cpu_home.c] so that
	if there is "@" in the username construct the namespace according to
	[/lib/namespace.grid | http://www.r-36.net/namespace.grid]. cpu.c
	also sets RFNOMNT if necessary.

RESOURCE DISCOVERY

We need a way to discover other 9grid nodes.

PARALLEL PROGRAMING PARADIGM

We need a version of [MP |
http://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~mirtchov/lanlp9/mp/index.html] adopted
to 9grid framework.

