THM 2005-05-19 Summary
D1273173173
Auriel
#Notes taken by [kuroneko]
#
#Status reports:
#
#20H
#
#Multiauthdom:
# *	It "takes the keys of the users on the other nodes and uses them
#	for the tickets."
# *	All done except for factotum
# *	waiting on ddr.9grid.de to come back online
# *	Authsrv + backend are working.
# *	Code available in ddr.9grid.de
# *	Still Private Key based
# *	rsc9 suggests that this should be replaced to use public keys
#
#Modularised Installer.
#
#dtLinux v2.6 with v9fs.
#
#BRUCEE
#
#(via [boyd]) OzInferno is done but release on hold until docs are
#writen, "doesn't need much doc 'cause the vita stuff will largely
#do".
#
#Will IRC first week of june when in paris.
#
#ERICVH
#
#(See [ericvh] for details)
#
#9grid.us:
# *	slowly coming to life.
# *	main function to be a drawterm host
# *	for checking out 9 vs real grid apps
# *	should be available after the weekend
#
#v9fs:
# *	up to release canidate 5
# *	complaints from pre-LKML community diminishing
# *	likely to go to LKML on Monday
#
#Summer projects:
# *	reliability stuff
# *	linux kernel server support (more than u9fs)
# *	"want to be able to attach gateway devices, etc. directly to it."
#
#Interested in:
# *	authsrv for Linux
# *	plan9ports being split up more linux-like
# *	"split up the (p9p) components a bit so I can have people just
#	grab the libraries and build environment to build synthetic file
#	servers under Linux"
#
#KURONEKO
#
#(See [kuroneko] for details)
#
#Sparc32:
# *	up to MMU mapping
# *	xalloc needs fixing
# *	needs multiple arbitary zone allocation
#
#Fs64:
# *	need to retest
#
#Fs:
# *	jukebox behaviour workarounds
# *	/n/sources/contrib/ccollins/fs
# *	document build procedures
#
#GDIAZ
#
#9grid.org.es stalled due to workload.
#
#Will talk to 20h about cross-domain auth.
#
#MAJOR-WILLARD (BOYD)
#
#Bad hand slowing work.
#
#Compilers fix for to handle large macro expansions:
# *	"99.9% done. the 0.1% is subtle"
# *	cmd/8c and cmd/cc are on contrib/boyd
#
#NASHI
#
#Running tip9ug servers, "everyone behaves good on mordor."
#
#Talking about multi authdom in tip9ug.
#
#vt3 adds: "working on japanese fonts, finding security issues with
#venti, just being modest"
#
#OKSEL
#
#Interested in USB work, modified usbd to automatically load usbmouse
#when a mouse gets plugged in.
#
#QUINTILE
#
#Cifs, adding ntlmv2 auth, message signing, dfs support.
#
#Seperating libasn1 from libsec, leading up to ldapfs, snmpfs and krb
#in factotum.
#
#Chatfs as a /net service providing msim, yahoo, jabber, etc.
#
#All incomplete - published when ready.
#
#RMILLER
#
#Working on usb storage improvements soon.
# *	usb itself needs work as its too slow to be really usable for
#	storage
# *	many devices don't boey the spec either
# *	poor performance attributed to "only being able to send one
#	packet per usb frame"
# *	forsyth may be looking at usb as well
# *	usb booting should work if supported by bios(not sure about 9load)
#
#RMINNICH
#
#Port to Xen3.0
# *	goes really slowly
#
#Working with vic zandy'x xcpu:
# *	"xcpu is really really nice"
# *	server for remote execution
# *	not released yet
# *	for lightweight cluster nodes.
# *	similar to linux bproc stuff
#
#Strongarm
# *	enet driver has issue
#
#Try to work with k8 once jmk releases initial kernel code.
#
#RSC9
#
#Wkj has almost working sshv2.
#
#Working on venti rewrite:
# *	almost in a releaseable state
# *	jmk + rsc9 will be deploying a new venti to test it
# *	considerably faster than old venti
# *	p9p release first, then plan9 native
# *	available in the CVS as p9p
#
#TMCM
#
#Pointed out buffer overflow vulnerability report:
#http://schtarb.free.fr/plan9.txt rsc9 said he would look into it if
#he had some time, but asked for volunteers to do it.
#
#URIEL
#
#(See [uriel] for details)
#
#Hacking on wiki and docs.
#
