9P2010


MOTIVATION

In my use of 9P within the Linux and IBM communities there have been
several requests for extensions to better support Linux environments
or features not currently a part of the protocol (locking, caching,
batch operations, storage networking, etc.) As such, I'd like to work
towards a specification of the protocol which can accomodate these
extensions in as non-intrusive a way as possible (the counter-example
being 9P2000.u which while negotiated ends up complicating clients
and servers who wish to use it).

BASICS

The core protocol (size prefix, operation, tag) remains the same. The
existing 9P2000 operations remain the same, 9P2000.u will be
depricated by the new extension model. Extensions will exist in a
complimentary namespace -- that is to say operation identifiers will
not overlap with existing operations, and all extensions will use new
operations as opposed to changes to existing operations. Alternate
extension op-codes spaces may be negotiated by optional prefixes
during Tversion negotiation -- but every effort will be made to keep
operations within the existing namespace.

The extensions are OPTIONAL, servers which don't wish to implement
them (or any subset of them) simply returns Rerror -- well behaved
clients will fall back to the core 9P2000 operations.

OPERATION CODE RESERVATION

To facilitate complimentary extensions, we'll use a wiki page [9P2010
Operations] to coordinate op-code reservation for specific
extensions. It will be the definitive registration resource for the
time being.

