<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
	<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
	<meta name="keywords" content="9p, 9p2000, research, Plan 9, Inferno, Unix, Open Source, Bell Labs" />
	<meta name="description" content="Open source distributed operating system Plan 9 from Bell Labs." />
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="/wiki-style.css" media="all" type="text/css" />
	<title>THM 2005-06-23 Summary (Diff)</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1><a name="top"></a>
THM 2005-06-23 Summary <i>-Diff-</i></h1>

<div class='body'> <!-- ***************************** -->

<hr /><div class='diff_head'>
<a href="index.html">Thu May  6 15:11:46 EDT 2010</a>, uriel
</div><hr />Original
agenda:
<ul>

<li>
Documentation:
status,
people
working
on
it,
goals,
resources.
</li>

<li>
Plan
9/Inferno/Limbo
integration(native
dis,
auth,
shared
code,
etc.)
</li>

<li>
Ports
to
new
arches
and
coordination
of
kernel
work
(x86-64,
Sparc,
Xen,
...)
</li>

<li>
Tech
transfer:
p9p,
dtLinux.
</li>

<li>
v9fs
status
report
-
<a href="../ericvh">ericvh</a>
</li>

<li>
An
update
on
the
9grid
and
cross-domain
auth?
-
20h
</li>
</ul>

<p class='para'>
Notes
taken
by
newsham@lava.net.
If
there
are
inaccuracies
please
email
the
fix
to
me
and
I'll
update
the
wiki
or
fix
them
in
the
wiki
directly.
All
names
are
given
as
the
IRC
Nickname
used
during
the
meeting
with
punctuation
omitted.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
was
the
moderator.
The
meeting
went
for
slightly
longer
than
one
hour.
The
moderator
allotted
ten
minutes
for
each
topic.
</p>

<a name="DOCUMENTATION" /><h3>DOCUMENTATION</h3>

<p class='para'>
<a href="../Uriel">Uriel</a>
asked
for
feedback
about
the
curent
documentation.
<ul>

<li>
Newsh
requested
compiler
and
kernel
documentation.
Uriel
noted
that
he
is
trying
to
get
<a href="../Boyd">Boyd</a>
to
document
the
compiler.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<p class='para'>
20h
suggested
that
there
should
be
an
introduction
to
creating
documentation
to
help
recruit
new
documenters.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Uriel
started
a
discussion
about
what
belonged
in
the
wiki
and
what
belonged
in
more
formal
documentation.
<ul>

<li>
Ericvh
said
that
over
time
some
wiki
documentation
should
be
formalized
into
/sys/doc
and
/sys/man.
He
offered
that
information
should
be
annotated
in
the
wiki
for
future
migration
to
formal
documentation.
</li>

<li>
Musasabi
said
that
there
should
be
a
good
Plan9
introduction
document
showing
how
to
use
Plan9
system
components
together.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
noted
that
v9fs
exposure
might
offer
the
opportunity
for
people
to
publish
such
documents.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
pointed
out
that
the
wiki
is
a
good
place
for
tutorials,
and
while
there
is
a
lot
of
configuration
tutorial
material
there
is
not
good
coverage
of
other
topics.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
said
that
the
ports
document
from
/sys/doc
should
be
moved
to
the
wiki.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
said
he
has
updated
html
documentation
and
asked
how
to
submit
it.
Ericvh
suggested
putting
them
on
sources
and
notifying
Jmk
and
Russ.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
noted
that
the
updates
were
hand
edits
due
to
deficiencies
in
troff2html
that
would
likely
be
hard
to
fix.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<a name="PLAN9/INFERNO_INTEGRATION" /><h3>PLAN9/INFERNO INTEGRATION</h3>

<p class='para'>
Uriel
asked
if
anyone
is
still
working
on
native
Dis.
<ul>

<li>
Lucho
responded
that
he
has
not
done
any
new
work
for
lack
of
time.
He
is
not
aware
of
anyone
else
doing
any
work
but
thinks
the
work
would
be
useful
especially
for
writing
GUI
applications.
</li>

<li>
CaptainWillard
said
dis
is
native
on
froggie
(f2f
notes
that
froggie
is
brucee's
OzInferno
box).
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<p class='para'>
Uriel
offered
up
the
idea
of
merging
Inferno
into
the
Plan9
distribution.
<ul>

<li>
20h
said
dtLinux
2.6
will
have
p9p
and
Inferno.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
asked
about
code
sharing
"(specially
kencc)"
and
auth
compatibility.
This
started
off
a
discussion
on
supporting
Inferno's
auth
mechanisms.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
said
it
was
a
good
idea
to
integreat
Inferno's
auth
mechanisms
int
Plan9,
p9p
and
v9fs.
</li>

<li>
F2f
mentioned
that
the
auth
mechanisms
are
PKI
based
and
Uriel
offered
that
they
may
provide
a
solution
to
cross
domain
authentication
in
Grid
computing.
(This
topic
is
discussed
more
later).
</li>

<li>
Cross
stated
a
desire
for
a
Kerberos
KDC
which
Ericvh
seconded.
</li>

<li>
The
lack
of
manpower
to
do
the
actual
work
was
discussed
and
Uriel
decided
to
add
the
item
to
the
wiki
<a href="../TODO">TODO</a>
list.
Ericvh
said
that
this
would
be
a
great
community
project
and
said
we
should
resume
discussions
on
the
mailing
list
(9fans).
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<a name="PORTS_TO_NEW_ARCHITECTURES_AND_KERNEL_WORK" /><h3>PORTS TO NEW ARCHITECTURES AND KERNEL WORK</h3>

<p class='para'>
Newsh
said
that
he
has
not
done
any
work
on
sparc
recently
and
has
started
working
on
Xen
3.0
with
Ron.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Uriel
asked
if
Kuro
has
worked
out
issues
of
overlapping
work
with
Jmk,
but
Kuroneko
was
not
around
and
nobody
could
offer
an
answer.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
said
that
ppc64
work
looks
to
be
moving
ahead
but
didn't
have
further
details
since
he
is
not
directly
involved.
<ul>

<li>
Ericvh
also
pointed
out
that
he
put
a
G5
ppc64
linux
machine
on
the
network
for
people
to
use.
He
also
mentioned
that
IBM
will
be
releasing
its
full
system
simulator
for
ppc64
(ppc970
GP/UL
and
rhype)
any
day
now.
</li>

<li>
Cross
asked
which
machines
other
than
the
fated
Apple
ppc
machines
might
benefit
from
such
a
port
and
Ericvh
mentioned
the
Ps/3
and
Xbox
360.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<p class='para'>
Newsh
asked
about
how
the
cell
would
be
used
and
Ericvh
said
the
PPC
core
would
run
Plan9
and
provided
some
examples
of
how
the
SIMD
cores
might
be
used.
</p>

<a name="TECH_TRANSFER_PROJECTS_(P9P,_DTLINUX,_V9FS)" /><h3>TECH TRANSFER PROJECTS (P9P, DTLINUX, V9FS)</h3>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
passed
on
a
p9p
update
on
behalf
of
Russ
(who
was
not
present).
Work
continues
but
nothing
big
is
planned.
Venti
is
working
and
available
from
the
p9p
CVS
(although
under
a
different
module
name).
Russ
and
Jmk
are
going
to
put
venti
through
its
paces
at
the
Labs
and
then
roll
it
into
p9p
and
Plan9.
</p>

<p class='para'>
20h
is
working
on
dtLinux
2.6
with
some
free
time
he
has
gotten
recently.
It
will
have
p9p,
Inferno
and
v9fs.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
also
mentioned
progress
on
a
drawterm
replacement
under
p9p
which
started
off
a
discussion
about
drawterm
and
splitting
up
p9p
into
packages.
The
drawterm
discussion:
<ul>

<li>
p9p
drawterm
is
progressing
but
Russ
hasn't
had
time
for
it
lately.
It
still
needs
work
on
the
synthetic
console
and
graphics
devices.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
stated
that
dt2k
has
windows
support
and
that
there
is
talk
of
dropping
the
old
drawterm
completely.
He
also
stated
he
has
it
working
in
ppc-linux.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
asked
who
maintains
dt2k,
Ericvh
pointed
out
that
it
is
available
at
ucalgary
(f2f's
repository)
and
f2f
eventually
replied
that
it
is
unknown
who
current
maintainer
is.
</li>

<li>
20h
stated
an
objection
to
p9p
as
a
drawterm
replacement
due
to
its
size
and
lack
of
modularity.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
stated
that
a
Limbo-based
drawterm
would
be
a
good
solution
and
be
easy
to
do
(once
Plan9
authentication
issues
are
addressed
in
Inferno).
</li>

<li>
Hyperion
hinted
that
VNC
is
a
viable
alternative
and
Ericvh
pointed
out
that
VNC
doesn't
do
everything
that
drawterm
does.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
asked
for
promiment
drawterm
documentation
on
the
wiki
and
Uriel
agreed
that
a
drawterm
page
should
be
made.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<p class='para'>
The
discussion
on
finer
grained
packaging
of
p9p:
<ul>

<li>
Newsh
stated
that
taking
a
specific
component,
such
as
drawterm,
out
of
p9p
and
providing
binaries
or
sources
seperately
shouldnt
be
too
hard.
20h
offered
skepticism
that
this
would
actually
occur
due
to
traditional
lack
of
manpower.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
said
he
had
talked
to
Russ
about
breaking
up
p9p
and
that
Russ
wasn't
opposed
to
it
but
did
not
want
the
packaging
to
be
too
granular
due
to
interdependencies.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
stated
that
there
should
be
a
package
of
libraries
and
opined
that
developers
want
libraries
seperate
from
the
applications.
</li>

<li>
Cross
argued
that
breaking
up
p9p
will
only
increase
complexity.
</li>

<li>
Some
stated
that
p9p
is
too
monolithic
and
others
pointed
out
that
Plan9
has
traditionally
been
monolithic.
The
topic
drifted
towards
the
philosophical.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
pointed
out
that
if
the
sources
are
removed
p9p
is
quite
small.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
said
he
packaged
p9p
for
gentoo
and
submitted
them,
although
the
packages
are
"lost
in
their
bugtracker."
</p>

<a name="9GRID_AND_CROSS-DOMAIN_AUTH" /><h3>9GRID AND CROSS-DOMAIN AUTH</h3>

<p class='para'>
20h
stated
that
there
are
two
proposed
solutions
that
have
been
developed
and
are
in
use.
One
is
his
own
in
use
for
9grid.de
and
the
other
is
tip9ug's
implementation
in
use
at
tip9ug.jp.
</p>

<p class='para'>
The
potential
for
using
Inferno's
PKI-based
authentication
was
suggested
by
Newsh
and
Uriel.
20h
pointed
out
that
the
main
obstacle
is
getting
someone
to
write
the
code.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
expressed
an
interest
in
hosting
some
cross
domain
authentication
server
but
may
not
be
able
to
due
to
his
network
setup
and
a
desire
to
maintain
his
current
ability
to
authenticate
against
sources.
<ul>

<li>
Nashi
pointed
out
that
you
can
log
in
to
isengard.tip9ug.jp
with
either
a
sources
account
or
a
tip9ug
account.
</li>

<li>
Nashi
said
his
factotum
patches
are
available
at
<a href="http://www.tip9ug.jp/who/nashi/9grid/p9sk1.c">http://www.tip9ug.jp/who/nashi/9grid/p9sk1.c</a>
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
said
that
there
should
be
a
wiki
to
collect
information
about
the
cross-domain
authentication
systems
and
Newsh
seconded
this
idea.
<ul>

<li>
Uriel
noted
that
there
should
be
some
coordination
between
the
people
working
on
cross-domain
authentication.
Ericvh
pointed
out
that
the
wiki
would
aid
in
this.
</li>

<li>
Nashi
said
he
would
translate
his
page
and
place
it
on
the
wiki.
</li>

<li>
Quintile
suggested
a
seperate
mailing
list
and
several
people
replied
that
9fans
would
be
suitable.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<a name="TEXT_BASED_INSTALL" /><h3>TEXT BASED INSTALL</h3>

<p class='para'>
The
topic
sponsor
was
idle
and
this
topic
was
skipped
at
first
and
returned
to
when
the
sponsor
returned.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Bakul
expressed
a
desire
to
have
a
pre-canned
automated
installer
that
required
no
interaction.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
suggested
that
there
should
be
an
option
to
install
a
CPU
server
from
the
installer.
<ul>

<li>
Newsh
offered
that
this
could
be
a
shell
script
that
is
run
post-install
to
upgrade
a
terminal
to
a
CPU
server.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
offered
instead
that
it
be
a
final
step
after
the
installer
has
finished
the
installation.
He
also
asked
for
a
volunteer
but
no
one
responded
publically.
Uriel
said
he
would
add
the
item
to
the
wiki
<a href="../TODO">TODO</a>
page.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<a name="VESA_SUPPORT" /><h3>VESA SUPPORT</h3>

<p class='para'>
Uriel
asked
when
VESA
support
would
be
in
the
install
ISO.
Nobody
present
was
able
to
answer.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Uriel
started
off
a
discussion
of
wether
the
ISO
should
support
both
native
and
VESA
drivers
or
only
the
VESA
driver.
<ul>

<li>
Hyperion
pointed
out
that
VESA
did
not
work
on
his
geforce2.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
stated
that
VESA
was
an
important
option
during
installs
and
suggested
that
it
could
be
a
boot
argument
or
part
of
a
companion
boot
floppy.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
noted
that
20h
would
like
to
remove
native
drivers
to
save
space.
</li>

<li>
Uriel
pointed
out
that
VESA
does
not
universally
work
and
where
it
does
may
not
work
as
well
as
native
drivers
in
terms
of
selection
of
screen
resolutions
and
refresh
rates.
</li>

<li>
Ericvh
pointed
out
that
it
would
work
more
reliably
than
native
drivers
for
LiveCDs
and
installers
and
that
users
could
use
native
drivers
after
install
if
they
so
choose.
</li>
</ul>

</p>

<a name="CHAOS" /><h3>CHAOS</h3>

<p class='para'>
Ericvh
called
for
a
volunteer
to
moderate
the
next
meeting.
</p>

<p class='para'>
Hyperion
asked
if
the
future
direction
of
Xen
3.0
will
adversely
affect
Plan9.
Newsh
and
Ericvh
answered
that
it
will
not
since
there
are
no
plans
for
a
Plan9
Domain
0.
</p>
<hr>

</div> <!-- ***************************** -->

<hr class='banner_sep' />

<div class='banner'>
<ul>
	<li><a href="../plan_9_wiki/">Wiki</a></li>
	<li><a href="../Documentation/">Docs</a></li>
	<li><a href="../news/">News</a></li>
	<li><a href="../development/">Devel</a></li>
	<li><a href="../papers/">Papers</a></li>
	<li><a href="../download/">Download</a></li>

</ul>
</div>

<hr class='footer_sep' />

<div class='footer'>
	<a href="./">Current Page</a> - 
	<span class='last_mod'>Last modified Thu May  6 15:11:46 EDT 2010</span>
	
<br />
	<div class='about_wiki'>
<a href="http://plan9.bell-labs.com/plan9"><img align="middle" src="http://plan9.bell-labs.com/plan9/img/power36.gif" alt="Powered by Plan 9" /></a>
	<a href="../about.html">About this Wiki</a>
	</div>


</div>

</body></html>