<html>
<head>
<title>THM 2005-06-23 Summary (Editing Thu May  6 15:11:46 EDT 2010 version)</title>
<META http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
</head>
<!-- FFFFE9 is acme yellow; FFFFE9 is as close as
 you can get to it before charon decides to use 
 grey instead of map entry 254 -->
<body bgcolor="#FFFFE9" link="#0000AA" alink="#0000AA" vlink="#0000AA">
<center>
<font size=+2><b>THM 2005-06-23 Summary</b></font> (Editing Thu May  6 15:11:46 EDT 2010 version)
</center>
<p>

For information on editing, see the
description of 
<a href="../0">Plan 9 wiki syntax</a>.
<p>
<form action="/magic/wikipost" method="post">
<table><tr><td valign=top>
<input type="submit" name="x" value="Put"></td><td>
<table>
<tr><td align=right>(optional) Comment:</td><td><input type="text" name="comment" value="" cols=40></td></tr>
<tr><td align=right>(optional) Email:</td><td><input type="text" name="author" value="" cols=40></td></tr>
</table>
<input type="hidden" name="title" value="THM 2005-06-23 Summary">
<input type="hidden" name="version" value="1273173106">
<input type="hidden" name="service" value="plan9">
<input type="hidden" name="base" value="/wiki/plan9">
<p>
<textarea name="text" wrap="virtual" cols="80" rows="25">
Original agenda:

 *	Documentation: status, people working on it, goals, resources.
 *	Plan 9/Inferno/Limbo integration(native dis, auth, shared code,
	etc.)
 *	Ports to new arches and coordination of kernel work (x86-64,
	Sparc, Xen, ...)
 *	Tech transfer: p9p, dtLinux.
 *	v9fs status report - [ericvh]
 *	An update on the 9grid and cross-domain auth? - 20h

Notes taken by newsham@lava.net. If there are inaccuracies please
email the fix to me and I'll update the wiki or fix them in the wiki
directly. All names are given as the IRC Nickname used during the
meeting with punctuation omitted.

Ericvh was the moderator. The meeting went for slightly longer than
one hour. The moderator allotted ten minutes for each topic.

DOCUMENTATION

[Uriel] asked for feedback about the curent documentation.
 *	Newsh requested compiler and kernel documentation. Uriel noted
	that he is trying to get [Boyd] to document the compiler.

20h suggested that there should be an introduction to creating
documentation to help recruit new documenters.

Uriel started a discussion about what belonged in the wiki and what
belonged in more formal documentation.
 *	Ericvh said that over time some wiki documentation should be
	formalized into /sys/doc and /sys/man. He offered that information
	should be annotated in the wiki for future migration to formal
	documentation.
 *	Musasabi said that there should be a good Plan9 introduction
	document showing how to use Plan9 system components together.
 *	Ericvh noted that v9fs exposure might offer the opportunity for
	people to publish such documents.
 *	Ericvh pointed out that the wiki is a good place for tutorials,
	and while there is a lot of configuration tutorial material there is
	not good coverage of other topics.
 *	Uriel said that the ports document from /sys/doc should be moved
	to the wiki.
 *	Uriel said he has updated html documentation and asked how to
	submit it. Ericvh suggested putting them on sources and notifying
	Jmk and Russ.
 *	Uriel noted that the updates were hand edits due to deficiencies
	in troff2html that would likely be hard to fix.

PLAN9/INFERNO INTEGRATION

Uriel asked if anyone is still working on native Dis.
 *	Lucho responded that he has not done any new work for lack of
	time. He is not aware of anyone else doing any work but thinks the
	work would be useful especially for writing GUI applications.
 *	CaptainWillard said dis is native on froggie (f2f notes that
	froggie is brucee's OzInferno box).

Uriel offered up the idea of merging Inferno into the Plan9
distribution.
 *	20h said dtLinux 2.6 will have p9p and Inferno.
 *	Uriel asked about code sharing "(specially kencc)" and auth
	compatibility. This started off a discussion on supporting Inferno's
	auth mechanisms.
 *	Ericvh said it was a good idea to integreat Inferno's auth
	mechanisms int Plan9, p9p and v9fs.
 *	F2f mentioned that the auth mechanisms are PKI based and Uriel
	offered that they may provide a solution to cross domain
	authentication in Grid computing. (This topic is discussed more
	later).
 *	Cross stated a desire for a Kerberos KDC which Ericvh seconded.
 *	The lack of manpower to do the actual work was discussed and Uriel
	decided to add the item to the wiki [TODO] list. Ericvh said that
	this would be a great community project and said we should resume
	discussions on the mailing list (9fans).

PORTS TO NEW ARCHITECTURES AND KERNEL WORK

Newsh said that he has not done any work on sparc recently and has
started working on Xen 3.0 with Ron.

Uriel asked if Kuro has worked out issues of overlapping work with
Jmk, but Kuroneko was not around and nobody could offer an answer.

Ericvh said that ppc64 work looks to be moving ahead but didn't have
further details since he is not directly involved.
 *	Ericvh also pointed out that he put a G5 ppc64 linux machine on
	the network for people to use. He also mentioned that IBM will be
	releasing its full system simulator for ppc64 (ppc970 GP/UL and
	rhype) any day now.
 *	Cross asked which machines other than the fated Apple ppc machines
	might benefit from such a port and Ericvh mentioned the Ps/3 and
	Xbox 360.

Newsh asked about how the cell would be used and Ericvh said the PPC
core would run Plan9 and provided some examples of how the SIMD cores
might be used.

TECH TRANSFER PROJECTS (P9P, DTLINUX, V9FS)

Ericvh passed on a p9p update on behalf of Russ (who was not
present). Work continues but nothing big is planned. Venti is working
and available from the p9p CVS (although under a different module
name). Russ and Jmk are going to put venti through its paces at the
Labs and then roll it into p9p and Plan9.

20h is working on dtLinux 2.6 with some free time he has gotten
recently. It will have p9p, Inferno and v9fs.

Ericvh also mentioned progress on a drawterm replacement under p9p
which started off a discussion about drawterm and splitting up p9p
into packages. The drawterm discussion:
 *	p9p drawterm is progressing but Russ hasn't had time for it
	lately. It still needs work on the synthetic console and graphics
	devices.
 *	Ericvh stated that dt2k has windows support and that there is talk
	of dropping the old drawterm completely. He also stated he has it
	working in ppc-linux.
 *	Uriel asked who maintains dt2k, Ericvh pointed out that it is
	available at ucalgary (f2f's repository) and f2f eventually replied
	that it is unknown who current maintainer is.
 *	20h stated an objection to p9p as a drawterm replacement due to
	its size and lack of modularity.
 *	Uriel stated that a Limbo-based drawterm would be a good solution
	and be easy to do (once Plan9 authentication issues are addressed in
	Inferno).
 *	Hyperion hinted that VNC is a viable alternative and Ericvh
	pointed out that VNC doesn't do everything that drawterm does.
 *	Ericvh asked for promiment drawterm documentation on the wiki and
	Uriel agreed that a drawterm page should be made.

The discussion on finer grained packaging of p9p:
 *	Newsh stated that taking a specific component, such as drawterm,
	out of p9p and providing binaries or sources seperately shouldnt be
	too hard. 20h offered skepticism that this would actually occur due
	to traditional lack of manpower.
 *	Ericvh said he had talked to Russ about breaking up p9p and that
	Russ wasn't opposed to it but did not want the packaging to be too
	granular due to interdependencies.
 *	Uriel stated that there should be a package of libraries and
	opined that developers want libraries seperate from the applications.
 *	Cross argued that breaking up p9p will only increase complexity.
 *	Some stated that p9p is too monolithic and others pointed out that
	Plan9 has traditionally been monolithic. The topic drifted towards
	the philosophical.
 *	Ericvh pointed out that if the sources are removed p9p is quite
	small.

Ericvh said he packaged p9p for gentoo and submitted them, although
the packages are "lost in their bugtracker."

9GRID AND CROSS-DOMAIN AUTH

20h stated that there are two proposed solutions that have been
developed and are in use. One is his own in use for 9grid.de and the
other is tip9ug's implementation in use at tip9ug.jp.

The potential for using Inferno's PKI-based authentication was
suggested by Newsh and Uriel. 20h pointed out that the main obstacle
is getting someone to write the code.

Ericvh expressed an interest in hosting some cross domain
authentication server but may not be able to due to his network setup
and a desire to maintain his current ability to authenticate against
sources.
 *	Nashi pointed out that you can log in to isengard.tip9ug.jp with
	either a sources account or a tip9ug account.
 *	Nashi said his factotum patches are available at
	[http://www.tip9ug.jp/who/nashi/9grid/p9sk1.c]

Ericvh said that there should be a wiki to collect information about
the cross-domain authentication systems and Newsh seconded this idea.
 *	Uriel noted that there should be some coordination between the
	people working on cross-domain authentication. Ericvh pointed out
	that the wiki would aid in this.
 *	Nashi said he would translate his page and place it on the wiki.
 *	Quintile suggested a seperate mailing list and several people
	replied that 9fans would be suitable.

TEXT BASED INSTALL

The topic sponsor was idle and this topic was skipped at first and
returned to when the sponsor returned.

Bakul expressed a desire to have a pre-canned automated installer
that required no interaction.

Ericvh suggested that there should be an option to install a CPU
server from the installer.
 *	Newsh offered that this could be a shell script that is run
	post-install to upgrade a terminal to a CPU server.
 *	Ericvh offered instead that it be a final step after the installer
	has finished the installation. He also asked for a volunteer but no
	one responded publically. Uriel said he would add the item to the
	wiki [TODO] page.

VESA SUPPORT

Uriel asked when VESA support would be in the install ISO. Nobody
present was able to answer.

Uriel started off a discussion of wether the ISO should support both
native and VESA drivers or only the VESA driver.
 *	Hyperion pointed out that VESA did not work on his geforce2.
 *	Ericvh stated that VESA was an important option during installs
	and suggested that it could be a boot argument or part of a
	companion boot floppy.
 *	Uriel noted that 20h would like to remove native drivers to save
	space.
 *	Uriel pointed out that VESA does not universally work and where it
	does may not work as well as native drivers in terms of selection of
	screen resolutions and refresh rates.
 *	Ericvh pointed out that it would work more reliably than native
	drivers for LiveCDs and installers and that users could use native
	drivers after install if they so choose.

CHAOS

Ericvh called for a volunteer to moderate the next meeting.

Hyperion asked if the future direction of Xen 3.0 will adversely
affect Plan9. Newsh and Ericvh answered that it will not since there
are no plans for a Plan9 Domain 0.

</textarea><p>
</td>
</table>
</form>

<hr>
<table width=100%><tr>
<td valign=center align=left>
</td><td valign=center align=right>
<a href="../about.html">About the server</a>
| 
<a href="http://plan9.bell-labs.com/plan9"
><img src="http://plan9.bell-labs.com/plan9/img/power36.gif"
alt="Powered by Plan 9"></a>
</td>
</tr></table>
</html>
</body>
